USEID-661: Add ADR 0007 bundesident scheme (#14)
digitalservicebund/useid-architecture: doc/adr/0007-bundesident-url-scheme.md

> # 7. Switch from eid:// to bundesident:// scheme

Reviewer: I'd rather be more generic here, so e.g. "Use own url scheme" or "Custom ClientURL scheme". What do you think?

Date: 2022-12-13

## Status

Accepted

## Context

> The Technical Guideline TR-03124-1 eID-Client – Part 1 (version 1.4 from 8. October 2021, Chapter 2.2 Full eID-Client) specifies the URL scheme for the ClientURL. 

Reviewer: Please link the TR, see e.g. [here](https://github.com/digitalservicebund/useid-backend-service/blob/main/doc/adr/0013-format-of-eid-client-url.md).

> Since we are implementing a mobile only approach, described in ADR 5, we need to define the ClientURL as follows: 'eid://127.0.0.1:24727/eID-Client'. 

Reviewer: This sounds as if we're not sticking to the TR. The chapter 2.2 is only for "Full eID-Clients", but that's not what we are aiming for (for now!). So as long as we're no full eID-Client, we don't need to implement it and shouldn't.

> However, our eID-Client should not serve as a replacement of the currently available eID-Clients, e.g. AusweisApp2 (AA2). 

Reviewer: See above. The "not full eID-Client yet" is the better argument here.

> Our ClientURL schema should only open our app (BundesIdent) and should not interfere with other eID-Clients. 

Reviewer: schema vs. scheme?

## Decision

Instead of <br>
'eid://127.0.0.1:24727/eID-Client' <br>
we use <br>
'**bundesident**://127.0.0.1:24727/eID-Client' <br>

> as our ClientURL schema. 

Reviewer: In my opinion, I'd remove the newlines and use `code` block instead of `'`.

And you could add a sentence, that we use that as fallback only and use Universal Links/App Links as default, referencing to [0013 Format of the eID-Client URL](https://github.com/digitalservicebund/useid-backend-service/blob/main/doc/adr/0013-format-of-eid-client-url.md).

Reviewer 2: this section currently looks like this below

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9930966/207610695-bb0d878d-31ac-4e29-9214-b41518234063.png)

do you mean you want to use the backtick (hightlight as code)?

Instead of
`eid://127.0.0.1:24727/eID-Client`
we use 
`bundesident://127.0.0.1:24727/eID-Client`

## Consequences

> BundesIdent, e.g. our eID-Client, will only open when the user tries to identify for our own service (https://www.grundsteuererklaerung-fuer-privateigentum.de/), due to the individual schema 'bundesident://''.<br>

Reviewer: Please only mention the widget ("eServices using our BundesIdent widget") and not Grundsteuer.
And: "schema vs. scheme". Moreover, this could again be a bit more defensive, since it's only on the fallback page.

> Other eServices that conform to the 'eid://' schema will not be able to open BundesIdent, they will use the installed standard eID-Clients, like AA2.  

Reviewer: Good and important note! I'd again rather use `code` block.

# 7. Custom ClientURL scheme

Date: 2022-12-13

## Status

Accepted

## Context

The [Technical Guideline TR-03124-1](https://www.bsi.bund.de/SharedDocs/Downloads/DE/BSI/Publikationen/TechnischeRichtlinien/TR03124/TR-03124-1.pdf) specifies the URL scheme for the ClientURL. 
For now, we are not aiming to be a full eID-Client. Therefore, we do not need to stick to the specified ClientURL in chapter 2.2. 
Our ClientURL scheme should only open our app (BundesIdent) and should not interfere with other eID-Clients. 

## Decision

Instead of <br>
`eid://127.0.0.1:24727/eID-Client` <br>
we use <br>

> `bundesident://127.0.0.1:24727/eID-Client` <br>

Reviewer: Remove newline

Referencing [ADR 13 - Format of the eID-Client URL](https://github.com/digitalservicebund/useid-backend-service/blob/main/doc/adr/0013-format-of-eid-client-url.md), 

> `bundesident://...` is used as universal link / app link for opening BundesIdent. 

Reviewer: As discussed...

> If the `bundesident://...`scheme does not open BundesIdent, `eid://...` is used as the fallback ClientURL, thus, any installed full eID-Client is opened.

Reviewer: As discussed...

## Consequences

> BundesIdent, e.g. our eID-Client, will only open when the user tries to identify for eServices using our BundesIdent widget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BundesIdent (i.e. our eID-Client) will only open when the user tries to identify for eServices using our BundesIdent widget.
```

> Other eServices that conform to the `eid://...` scheme will not be able to open BundesIdent, they will use the full eID-Clients, like AA2.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other eServices that use the `eid://...` scheme will not be able to let theirs users open BundesIdent, but instead another full eID-Client like AA2.
```
